Eliora Hansonbrook
Friday, May 1, 2026

# Midterm 2 Reflection: Axelrod 1997

I found the most frustrating part of model implementation to be an apparent discrepancy between the verbal description of the model at the beginning of Axelrod 1997 and some of the additional features added by Axelrod later in the model. For instance, after claiming that the model used digits to represent cultural features, Axelrod later discusses a model with fifteen possibilities in each cultural trait slot. Having implemented my model according to Axelrod’s description in “The Model,” this left me with some confusion, leading me to use an array rather than an integer to store the cultural values. This seems more consistent with later descriptions of how Axelrod’s implementation works, even though it differs slightly from his precise model implementation. I also built my model to be highly flexible in order to make it easily expandable to support changes Axelrod makes to his model. For example, I added support for expanding the model beyond the 10x10 grid that Axelrod uses in his description. (While preparing this paragraph I also added controls to manipulate the size of the grid, despite the fact that expanding the grid was not part of Axelrod’s model description.)

As far as I can tell, my model functions identically to Axelrod’s. I use color coding to visualize my model, and colors quickly form fairly clear groups. Although these groups often mask differentiation revealed by my graph of total cultural variation in the model, I do observe that certain areas quickly become mutually exclusive (i.e. they are no longer able to transmit traits across borders with other groups of different cultural values). This observation reassures me that I have successfully implemented Axelrod’s model.
